in the world of smartphones we are used
to very small improvements year on year
like maybe 5% or 10% better battery life
or better performance or better Energy
Efficiency and that's just the way the
industry's always been so we're
comfortable with those small gains every
year but the next generation of phones
are quite different because there's a
chip from Qualcomm the Snapdragon 8
Elite that just changes the whole
landscape of what this is like okay so I
was able to test two phones uh the first
phone is this one this is the OnePlus 13
now this is the Chinese edition of this
phone so I wasn't even going to do a
review of it I just I got it in and I
threw some games on it and I was
immediately aware of just how much
better the battery life was on this
device the OnePlus 13 compared to the
OnePlus 12 but this has a 6,000 Mah hour
battery versus the 5400 we see on the
OnePlus 12 and also they're running
different screens this has the kind of
curved Edge we've seen on a lot of
OnePlus devices this is the new flat
front with the kind of rounded edges but
it's just a new screen Tech that has
local variable refresh rates so you can
have different portions of the screen
with different refresh rates depending
on what's moving and what's not on the
screen at any given time so it just
gives you much better at least the
possibility for better Energy Efficiency
and also they're running different
software this is running color OS
because it's China and this is running
oxygen OS because this is like the
global North American version I'm like
these are just not great devices for
doing comparison of how good or how
different the new ship is but then I got
in these phones the RG phone 9 Pro now
this device is pretty much a clone to
last year's RG Phone 8 Pro in the sense
that it's got the same shape same design
same screen even the new one does go to
a higher refresh rate if you set it in
the options but the battery on the RG
phone 9 is around 5 to 6% bigger it's
not exactly the same but it's close and
when I ran my battery test on these
phones it's clear that the Snapdragon 8
Elite gives you so much more battery
life than the Snapdragon 8 gen three
like we're talking I'm going to say 25
to 30% is a conservative estimate I
think for a lot of phones out there if
you match everything equal it's probably
closer to 40% it is a massive increase
in battery life and it's particularly
impressive if you go back a few years
and just see how big of a jump this
really is now all this benchmarking
you've seen for battery is on the
heavier workloads like if you push this
thing on multi-core performance or if
you're just doing a lot of stuff or
playing heavy games and stuff you'll
notice really big gains for single core
tasks like if you're just browsing
Reddit for a long periods of time it's
not as impressive in terms of year
on-year gains but it's still a
significant improvement over the
previous generation but any device that
uses one of these new Snapdragon 8 Elite
chips is going to see a big jump in
battery life it's just like when was the
last time we've seen a 30% increase in
battery life in one generation of Chip
like it's just it really has never been
a thing for me uh the other thing to
keep in mind I think that you know we're
only looking at the Snapdragon 8 Elite
chips like the top end stuff I imagine
this trickles down to their mid M tier
and entry level chips as well maybe not
next year hopefully but I think this
technology just improves the entire
lineup from qualcom soon now the reason
for these big battery life gains is that
this new chip Snapdragon 8 Elite is more
energy efficient than the previous
generation and we've seen really good
single core and multi-core efficiency in
terms of the CPU but the thing that was
most impressive to me was the GPU so
there's a game called genjin impact it's
an old game at this point but every time
a new chip comes out I like to take
genjin and run it on those new Chips
just to see how far you can push that
chip before it drops in performance
because this is a game that loves GPU
power it's a very demanding title and
typically any phone that you throw at
this game will eventually Throttle Down
like the game will play these really
nice graphics for a good amount of time
and then at some point the phone gets
hot and it has to lower its performance
just to be able to keep up with the
thermal constraints of the system but on
both of these phones the OnePlus 13 and
the RG phone 9 it never throttled like
it seems you can play genin at Max
Graphics indefinitely at 60 frames per
second it's something special now the
OnePlus 13 is running slightly slower
Ram than the ram that's inside the RG
phone 9 Pro uh but both devices can do
it they never got warm enough that they
needed to throttle one thing to keep in
mind I am in Canada it's November it's
relatively cool right now so if you live
in like a super hot country obviously
you won't be able to do this but I've
never seen this on like stock devices
without using the cooler or anything on
the RG phone both of these phones are
engineered with really good thermal
Solutions on the inside like they have
graphite sheets and stuff but it's
mostly the chip that's doing the heavy
lifting like it's just a really energy
efficient chip but also with Energy
Efficiency you get long battery life but
you also get long battery like longevity
in terms of like battery health because
you know how a lot of phones have the
ability to control the charge limit you
can drop down to like 80% when you have
a really big and long lasting battery
and you drop it down to 80% it's still a
very longlasting battery and then now
you just right you're you're you're just
putting less wear and
on your charge cycles because you can
comfortably drop it down to 80% without
worrying about it lasting a day and a
half okay uh there you have it the
Snapdragon chips I was wildly impressed
the battery life is not something that I
ever thought that Qualcomm would be able
to fix so quickly in just one generation
and still call it like the Snapdragon 8
like I thought they'd have like a whole
different naming moniker but yeah it
looks really good this year very
promising all right hope you guys
enjoyed this video